# GRACE

`GRACE` is an evolution framework that uses Finite Difference
methods to simulate relativistic spacetimes and plasmas.

## Building the code 
The build system used for this project is Cmake. `GRACE` depends on some external libraries, which should be provided at build times. These are: MPI, Kokkos, p4est, Catch2 (for testing only), and YAML-cpp. Inside `env/` are some example configuration files that set the required environment variables to enable Cmake to find all dependencies. `GRACE` supports 2 and 3 spatial dimensions. The number of spatial dimensions in `GRACE` is a compile-time switch that can be set via the `GRACE_NSPACEDIM` cmake variable (see below for an example). The default is 2 dimensions. Moreover, `GRACE` leverages Kokkos as a shared-memory parallelization layer to achieve a (more or less) backend independent code structure. The available backends are: CUDA device, HIP device, host OpenMP and host serial. The active backend is determined at build time through the `TUHNDER_ENABLE_{DEV}` variables, where `DEV` can be `CUDA`, `HIP`, `OMP`, or `SERIAL`. Note that the Kokkos library being linked must also have been compiled with this device, this is checked at build time. An example of how to build Thuder is:
```
    cmake -Bbuild -S./ -DGRACE_NSPACEDIM=3 -DGRACE_ENABLE_CUDA=ON -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
``` 
Which sets up a `CUDA` backend, compiles the code in 3D, and includes all debug flags in the compilation.

## Building the docs 
`GRACE`'s documentation is automatically generated by Doxygen. To build the docs, make sure you have Doxygen installed on your system, then checkout the git submodule providing the `css` stylesheet for `GRACE`'s documentation
```
git submodule update --init 
```
You should then be able to simply build the docs as normal with Doxygen.